DOCS-1045: Add filter module tutorial (#1944)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/configure/pet-photographer.md

---
title: "Pet Photographer: Filter Data Captures"
linkTitle: "Pet Photographer"
type: "docs"
description: "Use the filter modular component in the Viam app to photograph your pet in their collar."
tags: ["vision", "filter", "camera", "detector", "services"]
aliases:
  - /tutorials/pet-photographer
  - /tutorials/filter-modular-component
authors: ["Sky Leilani"]
languages: []
viamresources: ["vision", "camera"]
level: "Beginner"
date: "2023-09-17"
# updated: ""
cost: "0"
no_list: true
weight: 3
---

Smart machines are an integral part of our daily lives.
From our phones to traffic lights, these machines rely on their ability to process and respond to data.
However, as the amount of data collected by these devices continues to grow, it becomes important to not only process it, but also to organize and manage it effectively.

This tutorial will guide you through using the color filter module to selectively capture and synchronize image data for pet photography with [Viam's cloud](/services/data/#cloud-sync).

> You can follow these steps to enhance your data management whether you're configuring a camera to take pictures of your pet, or working with any robot equipped with a [camera](/components/camera/)component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can follow these steps to enhance your data management whether you're configuring a camera to take pictures of your pet, or working with any robot equipped with a [camera](/components/camera/) component.
```

While the color filter module you use in this tutorial selects image data from a camera, these same principles can be applied to various components, including for filtering [sensor](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/tree/main/sensorfilter) data.

> The filter modular component allows you to [store data](/services/data/#data-capture) only when that data meets certain conditions you set.

Reviewer: Sorry - I know I've already asked you to change this once but I think this is better yet
```suggestion
The filter modular component allows you to selecively [store data](/services/data/#data-capture) when that data meets certain conditions you set.
```

linkTitle: "Pet Photographer"
type: "docs"
description: "Use the filter modular component in the Viam app to photograph your pet in their collar."
tags: ["vision", "filter", "camera", "detector", "services"]
aliases:
    - /tutorials/pet-photographer
    - /tutorials/filter-modular-component
authors: [ "Sky Leilani" ]
languages: []
viamresources: [ "vision", "camera" ]
level: "Beginner"
date: "2023-09-17"
# updated: ""
cost: "0"
no_list: true
weight: 3
---

Smart machines are an integral part of our daily lives.
From our phones to traffic lights, these machines rely on their ability to process and respond to data.
However, as the amount of data collected by these devices continues to grow, it becomes important to not only to process it, but also to organize and manage it effectively.

This tutorial will guide you through using the color filter module to selectively capture and synchronize image data with [Viam's cloud](/services/data/#cloud-sync).

While the color filter selects image data from a camera, these same principles can be applied to various components, including [sensors](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/tree/main/sensorfilter).

> The filter modular component allows you to increase the precision of your model's [data capture](/services/data/#data-capture) and determine which readings to store.

Author: Maybe precision was a confusing word, I did mean it refines the organization of the model's data capture, but it could be obvious to say.. thank you!

Navigate to the `modular-filter-examples/colorfilter/module` directory in your terminal, and run the following command:

```{class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
go build
```

This command will compile the source code in the colorfilter/module directory and generate an executable with the same name as the module, which is 'colorfilter'.

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
Go to the `colorfilter/module` directory of the color filter module you cloned and get the absolute path to your `colorfilter` module for later use by running:

```{class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
realpath colorfilter 
```

{{< /alert >}}

Read [this guide](https://docs.viam.com/extend/modular-resources/configure/#configure-a-local-module) for more information on configuring a local module.

### Set up camera

Navigate to your robot's page on the app and click on the **Config** tab.

Add your robot's camera as a component by clicking **Create component** in lower-left corner of the page and typing in 'webcam' or specific the model you're using.

![A photo of the webcam component named 'cam'](/tutorials/pet-photographer/webcam-component.png)

> For more information about the Camera component, you can refer to [this page](/components/camera/).

Reviewer: See how above in my suggestion I pull in the link into the text as is? That has two advantages:
- You can remove a sentence and keep the content shorter
- The text is more descriptive of the link. Generally link text that says `link`, `here`, `this page` is not very useful to the reader for figuring out what will be behind the link, and then they need to read the surrounding text to get a clue. It's better to have the link text itself be descriptive
```suggestion
```

## Add services

> After you've finished setting up, add a [vision service](/services/vision/detection) for color detection and a [data management service](/services/data/) for storing your filtered images.

Reviewer: slightly more specific and then adding a colon ensures they understand that both of those items will be described in more detail in the following
```suggestion
After you've finished setting up your robot's components, add a [vision service](/services/vision/detection) for color detection and a [data management service](/services/data/) for storing your filtered images:
```

### Vision service to detect color

> This tutorial uses the color of my dogs collar, `#43A1D0` or `rgb(67, 161, 208)` (blue).

Reviewer: See how this currently somewhat lacks context? You haven't mentioned your dog before this!

**Hex color #43A1D0**: {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/pet-photographer/43a1d0.png" resize="90x" declaredimensions=true alt="A color swatch for the color of example subject's collar">}}

Navigate to your robot's **Config** tab on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/robots) and configure your [vision service color detector](/services/vision/detection/):

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Builder" %}}

1. Click the **Services** subtab and click **Create service** in the lower-left corner.

1. Select the `Vision` type, then select the `Color Detector` model.

1. Enter `my_color_detector` as the name for your detector and click **Create**.

1. In the vision service panel, click the color selection box to set the color to be detected.
   For this tutorial, set the color to the color of your pet, or use a blue/green collar or ribbon to increase the precision of your filter.

1. Then, set **Hue Tolerance** to `0.06` and **Segment Size px** to `100`.

Your configuration should look like the following:

![The vision service configuration panel showing the color set to blue, the hue tolerance set to 0.06, and the segment size set to 100.](/tutorials/pet-photographer/vision-service.png)

> For more detailed information see [Configure a color detector](/services/vision/detection/#configure-a-color_detector).

Reviewer: Here you've used descriptive text for the link - very good

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

Add the vision service object to the services array in your rover’s raw JSON configuration:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}

> "services": [
>   {
>     "name": "my_color_detector",
>     "type": "vision",
>     "model": "color_detector",
>     "attributes": {
>       "segment_size_px": 100,
>       "detect_color": "#43a1d0",
>       "hue_tolerance_pct": 0.06
>     }
>   },
>   ... // Other services
> ]

Reviewer: The danger is that they will otherwise copy paste the services object as a whole
```suggestion
  {
    "name": "my_color_detector",
    "type": "vision",
    "model": "color_detector",
    "attributes": {
      "segment_size_px": 100,
      "detect_color": "#43a1d0",
      "hue_tolerance_pct": 0.06
    }
  },
  ... // Other services
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Builder" %}}

1. At the bottom-left of the page, click **Create service**.
1. Choose `Data Management` as the type and name your instance of the data manager `dm`.
  This service syncs data from your robot to the Viam app in the cloud.
1. Select **Create**.
1. On the panel that appears, you can manage the capturing and syncing functions individually.
   By default, the data management service captures data every 0.1 minutes in the <file>~/.viam/capture</file> directory.

   You can leave the default settings as they are.
   Click **Save Config** at the bottom of the window.

   ![An instance of the data management service named "dm". The cloud sync and capturing options are toggled on and the directory is empty. The interval is set to 0.1](/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-management-services.png)

   For more detailed information see [Add the data management service](/services/data/configure-data-capture/#add-the-data-management-service).
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}
Add the vision service object to the services array in your rover’s raw JSON configuration:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}

>     "services": [

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    {
      "name": "dm",
      "type": "data_manager",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "sync_interval_mins": 0.1,
        "capture_dir": "",
        "tags": [],
        "additional_sync_paths": []
      }
    },
  ... // Vision and other services

> ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Click **Save Config** and head back to the Builder mode.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Configure the color filter camera

Before you can interact with the vision and data management services, you must configure your camera to filter color and store photos to Viam's cloud.

### Add local module

> Select the **Modules** subtab in the **Config** panel to upload the local color filter module to your robot's system in the Viam app.

Reviewer: The executable needs to be on the robot right? You need to mention that above

### Add colorfilter component

1. Click the **Components** subtab and click **Create component**.

1. Then, select the `local modular resource` type from the list.

   {{<imgproc src="extend/modular-resources/configure/add-local-module-list.png" resize="300x" declaredimensions=true alt="The add a component modal showing the list of components to add with 'local modular resource' shown at the bottom">}}

1. On the next screen:

   - Select the select [camera](/components/camera/), from the drop down menu.
   - Enter the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model-namespace-triplet" text="model namespace triplet">}} of your modular resource's [model](/extend/modular-resources/key-concepts/#models), `example:camera:colorfilter`.
   - Enter a name for this instance of your modular resource.
     This name must be different from the module name.

   {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/pet-photographer/add-colorfilter-module-create.png" resize="400x" declaredimensions=true alt="The add a component model showing the create a module step for a local color filter module">}}

1. Click **Create** to create the modular resource component.

1. Copy the following JSON configuration into the Attributes section:

> ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}

Reviewer: I think this should be indented to match the step

You can follow these steps to enhance your data management whether you're configuring a camera to take pictures of your pet, or working with any robot equipped with a [camera](/components/camera/) component.

{{<imgproc src="/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-example.png" resize="700x" declaredimensions=true alt="Dog in blue collar in the camera's live feed">}}

While the color filter module you use in this tutorial selects image data from a camera, these same principles can be applied to various components, including for filtering [sensor](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/tree/main/sensorfilter) data.
The filter modular component allows you to selectively [store data](/services/data/#data-capture) when that data meets certain conditions you set.
This can help you to avoid sifting through unwanted data captures and ensures that only the data you're interested in gets stored in Viam's cloud.

## Hardware Requirements

For this tutorial you'll need the following hardware components:

- A computer
- A webcam or external camera

> - A blue collar for enhanced accuracy _(optional)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A colored object, like a blue collar for enhanced accuracy _(optional)_
```

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
Additionally, you have the option to configure your camera to detect the distinctive color of your pet if it happens to be less common in the environment where you set your camera up.
In this tutorial, the camera is configured to identify and filter images with the color blue, as it is less common in many environments, including mine.
{{< /alert >}}

## Set up

Here's how to get started:

1. Install the [Go binary](https://go.dev/dl/) on your local development computer.

1. Update [`viam-server`](/installation/manage/#update-viam-server).
   If you don't already have `viam-server` installed, follow [these directions](/installation/#install-viam-server) to install the most recent, stable version.

1. [Create and connect](https://docs.viam.com/manage/fleet/robots/#add-a-new-robot) to your robot.

> 1. Clone the [Viam modular filter](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples) examples onto your robot's computer:

Reviewer: Adding a bit of information for why they need to do this
```suggestion
1. For this tutorial we are using a filter module which you need to get from GitHub. 
   Clone the [Viam modular filter](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples) examples onto your robot's computer:
```

```{class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
git clone https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples.git
```

### Set up your camera

Navigate to your robot's page on the app and click on the **Config** tab.

Add your robot's [camera](/components/camera/) as a component by clicking **Create component** in lower-left corner of the page and typing in 'webcam'.

![An instance of the webcam component named 'cam'](/tutorials/pet-photographer/webcam-component.png)

## Add services

After you've finished setting up your robot's components, add a [vision service](/services/vision/detection/) for color detection and a [data management service](/services/data/) for storing your filtered images:

### Vision service to detect color

> This tutorial uses the color of my dogs collar, `#43A1D0` or `rgb(67, 161, 208)` (blue).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses the color of my dogs collar, `#43A1D0` or `rgb(67, 161, 208)` (blue) but you can use a different colot, either the color of your pet or the color of a distincly colored item on your pet.
```

   You can leave the default settings as they are.
   Click **Save Config** at the bottom of the window.

   ![An instance of the data management service named "dm". The cloud sync and capturing options are toggled on and the directory is empty. The interval is set to 0.1](/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-management-services.png)

   For more detailed information see [Add the data management service](/services/data/configure-data-capture/#add-the-data-management-service).
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}
   Add the vision service object to the services array in your rover’s raw JSON configuration:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
    {
      "name": "dm",
      "type": "data_manager",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "sync_interval_mins": 0.1,
        "capture_dir": "",
        "tags": [],
        "additional_sync_paths": []
      }
    },
  ... // Vision and other services
```

Click **Save Config** and head back to the **Builder** mode.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Configure the color filter camera

> Before you can interact with the vision and data management services, you must configure your camera to filter color and store photos to Viam's cloud.

Reviewer: You can actually already interact with the vision service programmatically so let's change this slightly:

```suggestion
With the vision and data management services configured, you can now configure your camera to filter by color and store photos to Viam's cloud.
```

### Configure the module's executable

> This tutorial makes use of [Viam's color filter example](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/tree/main/colorfilter). However, you can modify the filter's source code or write your own filter for different components using [this guide](/extend/modular-resources/create/).

Reviewer: I worry that at this point people may have forgotten that they did this - so this helps connect the pieces a bit more:
```suggestion
You cloned the example code for the [modular filter examples](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/] when [setting up](#set-up).
This tutorial uses the [color filter example](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/tree/main/colorfilter).

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
To filter image data based on another constraint, modify the filter's source code.
You can also write your own filter for different components using [this guide](/extend/modular-resources/create/).
{{< /alert >}}
```

Navigate to the `modular-filter-examples/colorfilter/module` directory on your robot's terminal and run the following command:

```{class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}

> go build

Reviewer: in the set up step you instructed people to install go on your local development computer - should it be installed on the robot's computer?

```

> This command compiles the source code in the colorfilter/module directory and generate an executable with the same name as the module, which is 'colorfilter'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command compiles the source code in the colorfilter/module directory and generates an executable with the same name as the module, which is 'colorfilter'.
```

> {{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}

Reviewer: This is somethign they definitely need to do so not really a tip
```suggestion
```

Go to the <file>colorfilter/module</file> directory within the color filter module you cloned and get the absolute path to your `colorfilter` module for later use by running:

```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
realpath colorfilter
```

> {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Read [Configure a local module](https://docs.viam.com/extend/modular-resources/configure/#configure-a-local-module) for more information on configuring a local module.

### Add local module

> Select the **Modules** subtab in the **Config** panel to upload the local color filter module to your robot's system in the Viam app.

Reviewer: I don't think this uploads anything! You're telling viam (configuring) where the executable it needs to run is, so that it can run it:
```suggestion
Select the **Modules** subtab in the **Config** panel to configure the local color filter module for your robot's system in the Viam app.
```

In the **Add local module** section, enter the name of your module (`colorfilter`) along with the absolute path to the filter's executable and click **Add module**.
Then, click **Save config**.

![A color filter module that has been added.](/tutorials/pet-photographer/add-colorfilter-module.png)

### Add colorfilter component

1. Click the **Components** subtab and click **Create component**.

1. Then, select the `local modular resource` type from the list.

   {{<imgproc src="extend/modular-resources/configure/add-local-module-list.png" resize="300x" declaredimensions=true alt="The add a component modal showing the list of components to add with 'local modular resource' shown at the bottom">}}

1. On the next screen:

>    - Select the select camera from the drop down menu.
>    - Enter the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model-namespace-triplet" text="model namespace triplet">}} of your modular resource's [model](/extend/modular-resources/key-concepts/#models), `example:camera:colorfilter`.
>    - Enter a name for this instance of your modular resource.
>      This name must be different from the module name.

Reviewer: If they need to perform each step, best to use a numbered list:
```suggestion
   1. Select the camera from the drop down menu.
   1. Enter the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model-namespace-triplet" text="model namespace triplet">}} of your modular resource's [model](/extend/modular-resources/key-concepts/#models), `example:camera:colorfilter`.
   1. Enter a name for this instance of your modular resource.
      This name must be different from the module name.
```

>    {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/pet-photographer/add-colorfilter-module-create.png" resize="400x" declaredimensions=true alt="The add a component model showing the create a module step for a local color filter module">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/pet-photographer/add-colorfilter-module-create.png" resize="400x" declaredimensions=true alt="The add a component model showing the create a module step for a local color filter module">}}
```

Reviewer: I think this should indent it so the image is part of the above step

### Configure data capture

To add data capture for the colorfilter camera, click **Add Method** in the **Data Capture configuration** section of your color filter camera component.
Toggle the **Type** dropdown menu, select **ReadImage**, and set the **Frequency** of the capture to `0.1`.
Then, click **Save config**.

![A component panel for a color filter modular resource with the attributes filled out for vision service and actual_cam as well as the data capture configuration capture set capture ReadImage at 0.1 frequency](/tutorials/pet-photographer/colorfiltercam-component.png)

### Test your color filter camera

To test that your color filter camera is capturing and filtering images properly, navigate to the **Control** tab on your robot's page.

On the **colorfiltercam**'s panel, toggle **view colorfiltercam** to view your camera's live feed.
Test the filter by moving a blue colored item within the camera's field of view.
Then, go to the **Data** tab to view pictures that contain the blue colored item.

> ![Filtered data tab contents from colorfiltercam showing only photos of dog with blue collar](/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-capture.png)

Reviewer: brilliant

> ## Photograph your pet
> 
> To photograph your own pet, put them in a blue collar and position your camera to point at an area they frequently visit.
> When you check the **Data** tab, you'll only see pictures of your adorable pet.
> 
> ## Next steps

Reviewer: I assume people will have followed along so we don't need this here but can pick up some of it in the next steps section:
```suggestion
## Next steps

Your pet photographer is now set up, place it in an area your pet frequently visits and don't forget to attach the colored object to your pet.
Then, check the [**Data** tab](/manage/data/view/), you'll only see pictures of your adorable pet.
```

Toggle the **Type** dropdown menu, select **ReadImage**, and set the **Frequency** of the capture to `0.1`.
Then, click **Save config**.

![A component panel for a color filter modular resource with the attributes filled out for vision service and actual_cam as well as the data capture configuration capture set capture ReadImage at 0.1 frequency](/tutorials/pet-photographer/colorfiltercam-component.png)

### Test your color filter camera

To test that your color filter camera is capturing and filtering images properly, navigate to the **Control** tab on your robot's page.

On the **colorfiltercam**'s panel, toggle **view colorfiltercam** to view your camera's live feed.
Test the filter by moving a blue colored item within the camera's field of view.
Then, go to the **Data** tab to view pictures that contain the blue colored item.

![Filtered data tab contents from colorfiltercam showing only photos of dog with blue collar](/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-capture.png)

## Next steps

Your pet photographer is now set up, place it in an area your pet frequently visits and don't forget to attach the colored object to your pet.

> Then, check the [**Data** tab](/manage/data/view/)
> 
> {{< cards >}}
> {{% card link="/tutorials/services/try-viam-color-detection.md" %}}
> {{< /cards >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, check the [**Data** tab](/manage/data/view/).

If you want to checkout more, tutorials, you may enjoy:

{{< cards >}}
  {{% card link="/tutorials/projects/pet-treat-dispenser/" %}}
  {{% card link="/tutorials/projects/guardian/" %}}
  {{% card link="/tutorials/projects/send-security-photo/" %}}
{{< /cards >}}
```

While the color filter module you use in this tutorial selects image data from a camera, these same principles can be applied to various components, including for filtering [sensor](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/tree/main/sensorfilter) data.
The filter modular component allows you to selectively [store data](/services/data/#data-capture) when that data meets certain conditions you set.
This can help you to avoid sifting through unwanted data captures and ensures that only the data you're interested in gets stored in Viam's cloud.

## Hardware Requirements

For this tutorial you'll need the following hardware components:

- A computer
- A webcam or external camera
- A colored object, like a blue collar for enhanced accuracy _(optional)_

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
In this tutorial, the camera is configured to identify and filter images with the color blue, as it is less common in many environments, including mine.
If your pet already has a distinct color that is different from their environment, you can also configure your camera to use that color to identify pictures of your pet.
{{< /alert >}}

## Set up

Here's how to get started:

> 1. Install [Go](https://go.dev/dl/) on your robot's computer.

Reviewer 2: Doesn't need to be here - but somewhere in this tutorial we should remind users to update their server, and warn that any version < 0.8.0 will not have the filtering functionality.

1. [Create and connect](https://docs.viam.com/manage/fleet/robots/#add-a-new-robot) to your robot.

1. Follow the steps on the Setup tab of your robot to install [`viam-server`](/installation/) and connect to your robot.

1. For this tutorial we are using a filter module, which you need to get from GitHub.

>    Clone the [Viam modular filter](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples) examples onto your robot's computer:

Reviewer 2: We should explicitly tell users to use/return the specific values that the Data Management service exposes, otherwise the filtering functionality will not work as expected. The reasons to use `extra.FromDMString` and `data.ErrNoCaptureToStore` are detailed [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TXEMsY02D8Pxg0frxP6IdxmBEuVXMG8Dc1RRjMSPSuw/edit#bookmark=id.mph0hj303rb2).

I think it's fine to link the repo so that users can choose to just clone the code, but we should probably also show snippets of the code on the screen (like in [this tutorial](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TXEMsY02D8Pxg0frxP6IdxmBEuVXMG8Dc1RRjMSPSuw/edit#bookmark=id.mph0hj303rb2)) so users can see exactly what a "filter" module has that's different from any other modular component. Thoughts on this?

     - In this example, the camera's API is defined in the <file>[camera.go](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/main/components/camera/camera.go)</file> file in the RDK on Viam's Github.
       When developing your <file>main.go</file> or <file>main.py</file> file, reference this file.

## Clone the module for use

This tutorial will guide you through the process of coding your filter module.
However, if you prefer to use the pre-written or final code for the module, you can follow these steps:

1. Clone the [color filter module](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples) from GitHub onto your robot's computer:

```{class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
git clone https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples.git
```

1. [Compile the executable](https://docs.viam.com/modular-resources/create/#compile-the-module-into-an-executable) that runs your module in the `module` directory.
1. Save the path to your module's executable for later use.
1. [Add the local module](#add-local-module) and continue the tutorial from there.

If you would rather manually code your color filter module, read the section below to get started.

## Code your entry point file

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Create a folder for your module  with the name of your model `colorfilter`. Your model name must use all lowercase letters.

```

  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  err = myMod.Start(ctx)
  defer myMod.Close(ctx)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }
  <-ctx.Done()
  return nil
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

For more information on creating your own module, read [Code your own modules to create modular resources](https://docs.viam.com/modular-resources/create/).

## Code your filter resource model

The code for this colorfilter camera model (<file>[color_filter.go](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/main/colorfilter/color_filter.go)</file>) or (<file>[color_filter.py](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/main/pycolorfilter/color_filter.py)</file>) is sourced from the full modular filter examples available on the [Viam GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/tree/main).

### Include subtype's required methods

In order to code a new filter resource model, you must implement the required methods outlined in the <file>[client.go](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/components/camera/client.go)</file> file in the corresponding resource's directory.
In this case, the `rdk/components/camera` directory.

> Provide this as a file inside of your `colorfilter` module directory to serve as your module's client interface, <file>color_filter.go</file> or <file>color_filter.py</file>. Make sure you name your model with all lowercase letters for optimal performance with Viam's SDKs.

Reviewer 2: What does the "optimal performance" mean here? Is this just conforming to style guidelines or is there an actual performance drawback or error that would occur if we use uppercase letters in the model name?

> Provide this as a file inside of your `colorfilter` module directory to serve as your module's client interface, <file>color_filter.go</file> or <file>color_filter.py</file>. Make sure you name your model with all lowercase letters for optimal performance with Viam's SDKs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside your model's folder `colorfiler`, create a file called <file>color_filter.go</file> or <file>color_filter.py</file> inside of your `colorfilter` directory and implement the required methods in it.
```

However I don't know why that is here. At this point they should already have created that folder because that's where the entry point file surely went? or not? Moving that further up.

> 

Reviewer: Let's also point folks to the code here:
```suggestion

Implement your own code or copy the code for your file [color_filter.py](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/main/pycolorfilter/color_filter.py) and [color_filter.go](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/main/colorfilter/color_filter.go).

```

For more information, read [Create a custom module](https://docs.viam.com/modular-resources/create/#create-a-custom-module).

### Include filter module requirements

> When creating your own filter module, it's required to check whether the data management service is the caller of the filtering to prevent unwanted effects on the filter state.

Author: This sounds great! In the `color_filter.go` file, I see that `data.FromDMContextKey` is being used in place of `data.FromDMString`. I do see `data.FromDMString` being used in the sensor filter, but not in the color filter. Since this is something you'd like to be included, I'd love to ask more about this when you're feeling better!

> When creating your own filter module, it's required to check whether the data management service is the caller of the filtering to prevent unwanted effects on the filter state.

Author: @agreenb Regarding the [`Next` ](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/cd2f79c52b98c3deafbd1e9794869744803d4428/colorfilter/color_filter.go#L138) function in `color_filter.go`. Using `extra.FromDMString` has been emphasized, but I only see it being used in the [sensor filter](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/cd2f79c52b98c3deafbd1e9794869744803d4428/sensorfilter/sensor_filter.go#L98C1-L98C1). I'm very curious about the difference in their use!

> When creating your own filter module, it's required to check whether the data management service is the caller of the filtering to prevent unwanted effects on the filter state.

Reviewer 3: Camera is a one-off case that uses context in Go, since we don't currently have the `extra` field in our Go camera APIs — this is actually a ticket that the AV team will tackle in the next eng cycle.

So in Go, that looks like checking `ctx.Value(data.FromDMContextKey{})` as seen [here](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/cd2f79c52b98c3deafbd1e9794869744803d4428/colorfilter/color_filter.go#L139). We grab that from the `extra` field that can be passed in from Python, so Python will still use `from_dm_from_extra`

### Configure data capture

To add data capture for the colorfilter camera, click **Add Method** in the **Data Capture configuration** section of your color filter camera component.
Toggle the **Type** dropdown menu, select **ReadImage**, and set the **Frequency** of the capture to `0.1`.
Then, click **Save config**.

![A component panel for a color filter modular resource with the attributes filled out for vision service and actual_cam as well as the data capture configuration capture set capture ReadImage at 0.1 frequency](/tutorials/pet-photographer/colorfiltercam-component.png)

## Test your color filter camera

To test that your color filter camera is capturing and filtering images properly, navigate to the **Control** tab on your robot's page.

On the **colorfiltercam**'s panel, toggle **view colorfiltercam** to view your camera's live feed.
Test the filter by moving a blue colored item within the camera's field of view.
Then, go to the **Data** tab to view pictures that contain the blue colored item.

> ![Filtered data tab contents from colorfiltercam showing only photos of dog with blue collar](/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-capture.png)

Reviewer 2: So cute! Very small nit - but can we move this pic to the Next steps section since that's the part where we talk about the colored object on the pet?

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
     if from_dm_from_extra(extra):
         detections = await self.vision_service.get_detections(img)
```

- If `from_dm_from_extra` is `true` and the data management service is the caller of your filter function, the vision service is called to obtain an image and store it within the `img` variable.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go"%}}

Write a conditional statement that checks `data.FromDMContextKey{}`:

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
if ctx.Value(data.FromDMContextKey{}) != true {
   // If not data management collector, return underlying stream contents without filtering.
   return fs.cameraStream.Next(ctx)
}

// Only return captured image if it contains a certain color set by the vision service.
 img, release, err := fs.cameraStream.Next(ctx)

 detections, err := fs.visionService.Detections(ctx, img, map[string]interface{}{})
```

- If `data.FromDMContextKey{}` is `true` and the data management service is the caller, captures an image by declaring the (`img`) variable and filling it with the content from the camera stream.
- Then, after capturing the image, the code continues to request detections.

> **PLACEHOLDER: `FromDMContextKey` vs `FromDMString`?**

Reviewer: That's a question for @kaywux right?

Author: Yes, when she's back I'll be asking her about it!

Reviewer 3: The below is somewhat in reverse: FromDMContextKey is _only_ used for camera, and all other components (including sensor) using FromDMString in the Go SDK

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
 if from_dm_from_extra(extra):
     detections = await self.vision_service.get_detections(img)
     if len(detections) == 0:
             raise NoCaptureToStoreError()
```

- If the length of the `detections` variable is 0, it indicates that there is no content in the variable.
- `NoCaptureToStoreError()` is called to signify that the data management service was not the caller.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go"%}}

Inside your filter function, write a conditional statement that includes the error message `data.ErrNoCaptureToStore`:

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
if len(detections) == 0 {
   return nil, nil, data.ErrNoCaptureToStore
}
```

- If the length of the `detections` variable is 0, it indicates that there is no content in the variable.
- `data.ErrNoCaptureToStore` is called to signify that the data management service was not the caller.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Once you've included the required safeguard and utility function, your complete color filter function should look like the following.

> In the Go color filter, errors have been added for when there are errors encountered while getting the next source image or obtaining detections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python"%}}

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
async def get_image(self, mime_type: str = "", *, extra: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None, timeout: Optional[float] = None, **kwargs) -> Image.Image:
    """Filters the output of the underlying camera"""
    img = await self.actual_cam.get_image()
    if from_dm_from_extra(extra):
        detections = await self.vision_service.get_detections(img)
        if len(detections) == 0:
            raise NoCaptureToStoreError()

    return img
```

{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab name="Go"%}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab name="Go"%}}

The code has raises errors if errors encountered while getting the next source image or obtaining detections.
```

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Next contains the filtering logic and returns select data from the underlying camera.
func (fs filterStream) Next(ctx context.Context) (image.Image, func(), error) {
if ctx.Value(data.FromDMContextKey{}) != true {
// If not data management collector, return underlying stream contents without filtering.
return fs.cameraStream.Next(ctx)
}

    // Only return captured image if it contains a certain color set by the vision service.
    img, release, err := fs.cameraStream.Next(ctx)
    if err != nil {
      return nil, nil, errors.New("could not get next source image")
    }
    detections, err := fs.visionService.Detections(ctx, img, map[string]interface{}{})
    if err != nil {
      return nil, nil, errors.New("could not get detections")
    }

    if len(detections) == 0 {
      return nil, nil, data.ErrNoCaptureToStore
    }

    return img, release, err
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

- The Python-configured camera checks if the data management service is the caller of the filter function by using `from_dm_from_extra` to determine whether to store data.

> - The Go-configured camera checks if the data management service is the caller of the filter function by using `data.FromDMContextKey{}` to determine whether to store data.

Reviewer: Let's add these to the respective python and go tabs

Add the code below to initialize and start the filter module.

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Package main is a module which serves the colorfilter custom module.
package main

import (
  "context"

  "github.com/edaniels/golog"
  "go.viam.com/utils"

  "github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/colorfilter"
  "go.viam.com/rdk/components/camera"
  "go.viam.com/rdk/module"
)

func main() {
  utils.ContextualMain(mainWithArgs, module.NewLoggerFromArgs("colorfilter_module"))
}

func mainWithArgs(ctx context.Context, args []string, logger golog.Logger) (err error) {
  myMod, err := module.NewModuleFromArgs(ctx, logger)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  err = myMod.AddModelFromRegistry(ctx, camera.API, colorfilter.Model)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  err = myMod.Start(ctx)
  defer myMod.Close(ctx)
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }
  <-ctx.Done()
  return nil
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

For more information on creating your own module, refer to [Code your own modules to create modular resources](https://docs.viam.com/modular-resources/create/).

> Once you've written your filter module, [compile the executable](https://docs.viam.com/modular-resources/create/#compile-the-module-into-an-executable) that runs your module when executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've written your filter module, [compile the executable](https://docs.viam.com/modular-resources/create/#compile-the-module-into-an-executable) that runs your module when executed.
Note the path to your module’s executable for later use.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python"%}}

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
async def get_image(
  self,
  mime_type: str = "",
  *,
  extra: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None,
  timeout: Optional[float] = None,
  **kwargs
  ) -> Image.Image:
    """Filters the output of the underlying camera"""
    img = await self.actual_cam.get_image()
    if from_dm_from_extra(extra):
        detections = await self.vision_service.get_detections(img)
        if len(detections) == 0:
            raise NoCaptureToStoreError()

    return img
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go"%}}

This code includes the safeguards you wrote earlier as well as error handling for getting the next source image and obtaining detections.

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Next contains the filtering logic and returns select data from the underlying camera.
func (fs filterStream) Next(ctx context.Context) (image.Image, func(), error) {
if ctx.Value(data.FromDMContextKey{}) != true {
// If not data management collector, return underlying stream contents without filtering.

> return fs.cameraStream.Next(ctx)

Reviewer 3: [nit] indentation here and the `if` check bove

  For detailed information, please refer to the SDK documentation relevant to your specific language.

- If the boolean is `true`, the function will call the vision service to get detections and return the image if the color is detected, otherwise, it raises `NoCaptureToStoreError()`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go"%}}

<file>color_filter.go</file> implements "colorfilter", a custom model of the camera component.

<details>
  <summary>Click to view sample code from <file>color_filter.go</file></summary>

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Package colorfilter implements a modular camera that filters the output of an underlying camera and only keeps
// captured data if the vision service detects a certain color in the captured image.
package colorfilter

import (
"context"
"fmt"
"image"

    "github.com/edaniels/golog"
    "github.com/pkg/errors"
    "github.com/viamrobotics/gostream"

    "go.viam.com/rdk/components/camera"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/data"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/pointcloud"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/resource"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/rimage/transform"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/services/vision"

)

var (

> // Model is the full model definition.

Reviewer 3: [nit] formatting/indentation throughout this example

{{< /alert >}}

## Hardware Requirements

To create your own filtering pet photographer robot, you'll need the following hardware:

- A computer
- A webcam or an external camera
- A colored object, such as a blue collar for enhanced accuracy _(optional)_

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
In this tutorial, the camera is configured to identify and filter images with the color blue, as it is less common in many environments.
If your pet already has a distinct color that is different from their environment, you can also configure your camera to use that color to identify pictures of your pet.
{{< /alert >}}

## Set up

Here's how to get started:

1. Install [Go](https://go.dev/dl/) on both your local development computer and on your robot's board if they are not the same device.
1. [Create a robot](https://docs.viam.com/manage/fleet/robots/#add-a-new-robot) and connect to it.
1. [Install](/installation/manage/#update-viam-server) or [update](/installation/#install-viam-server) `viam-server`.

>    Your `viam-server` must be version 0.8.0 or higher to access the filtering functionality.

Author: In the [release dos for v0.8.0](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/releases/tag/v0.8.0-rc0) this is listed in the changes: `[DATA-1786](https://viam.atlassian.net/browse/DATA-1786) Support filtering capture data with modular camera component by @kaywux in https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/pull/2744`

I added a link and a bit of an explanation in the next push

## Create or download the filter module

> This tutorial will guide you through the process of [coding your filter module](#code-your-entry-point-file).

Author: Ah, I changed around the organization... so that had been a link to get started coding and skip over the download section, but I don't think it's needed at all since that sections not far down.

            detections = await self.vision_service.get_detections(img)
            if len(detections) == 0:
                raise NoCaptureToStoreError()

        return img

    async def get_images(
              self,
              *,
              timeout: Optional[float] = None,
              **kwargs
    ) -> Tuple[
         List[NamedImage],
         ResponseMetadata
         ]:
        raise NotImplementedError

    async def get_point_cloud(
              self,
              *,
              extra: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None,
              timeout: Optional[float] = None,
              **kwargs
    ) -> Tuple[
         bytes,
         str
         ]:
        raise NotImplementedError

    async def get_geometries(self) -> List[Geometry]:
        raise NotImplementedError
```

- The Python SDK simplifies the verification process by exposing the utility function `from_dm_from_extra`, which handles the check for you.
- For other programming languages, similar utility functions will be exposed to help you check the caller of your filter function.
  The method for this verification may vary depending on the specific function and programming language.

>   For detailed information, please refer to the SDK documentation relevant to your specific language.

Author: What do you think about moving this right below the introduction of the utility function and error? (formerly #### Include the filter module requirements) Since this should be the reference for users wanting to make their own filter module, I want it to be clear that they can follow similar logic to create their own... but this might be obvious already, what do you think?

    }
    detections, err := fs.visionService.Detections(ctx, img, map[string]interface{}{})
    if err != nil {
        return nil, nil, errors.New("could not get detections")
    }

    if len(detections) == 0 {
        return nil, nil, data.ErrNoCaptureToStore
    }

    return img, release, err
}

// Close closes the stream.
func (fs filterStream) Close(ctx context.Context) error {
    return fs.cameraStream.Close(ctx)
}
```

- A modular camera coded in Go looks for a flag called `fromDM` in the context (`ctx`) using `ctx.Value(data.FromDMContextKey{})` to figure out if data management triggered the filter, rather than using `extra`.

  - Instead of implementing [`GetImage`](/components/camera/#getimage) (like it is in Python, etc), in Go, you will implement `Stream` as shown in the example code.

- For other programming languages, similar utility functions will be exposed to help you check the caller of your filter function.
  The approach to perform this check may differ depending on the particular function and programming language. For detailed information, please refer to your chosen language's SDK documentation.

> - If the boolean is `true`, the function will call the vision service to get detections and return the image if the color is detected; otherwise, it will raise the [`ErrNoCaptureToStore`](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/214879e147970a454f78035e938ea853fcd79f17/data/collector.go#L44) error.

Author: I seee, I included them because there was a desired emphasis on the ability to later create your own module with filtering capabilities. So I was trying to outline some of the details regarding the functionality that I could understand from the code.

   You can leave the default settings as they are.
   Click **Save config** at the bottom of the window.

   ![An instance of the data management service named "dm". The cloud sync and capturing options are toggled on and the directory is empty. The interval is set to 0.1](/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-management-services.png)

   For more detailed information, see [Add the data management service](/services/data/configure-data-capture/#add-the-data-management-service).
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}
   Add the vision service object to the services array in your rover’s raw JSON configuration:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
    {
      "name": "dm",
      "type": "data_manager",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "sync_interval_mins": 0.1,
        "capture_dir": "",
        "tags": [],
        "additional_sync_paths": []
      }
    },
  ... // Vision and other services
```

Click **Save Config** and head back to **Builder** mode.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Vision service to detect color

> This tutorial uses the color of my dog's collar, `#43A1D0` or `rgb(67, 161, 208)` (blue), but you can use a different color that matches your pet or a distinctly colored item on your pet.
> 
> **Hex color #43A1D0**: {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/pet-photographer/43a1d0.png" resize="90x" declaredimensions=true alt="A color swatch for the color of the example subject's collar">}}
> 
> To configure your [vision service color detector](/services/vision/detection/):

Reviewer 4: Nit: let's introduce this in the same way we introduced the data management service:

```suggestion
To enable your smart machine to detect a specific color in its camera stream, add a [vision service color detector](/services/vision/detection/).
For this tutorial, we will configure the vision service to recognize a blue dog collar using `#43A1D0` or `rgb(67, 161, 208)`.
If you have a different item you want to use, or want to match to a color that matches your pet closely, you can use a different color.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Builder" %}}

> 1. At the bottom-left of the page, click **Create service**.

Reviewer 4: Nit: same as data management service first step:

```suggestion
1. On the **Config** page, click the **Services** subtab and click **Create service** in the lower-left corner.
```

1. Select the `Vision` type, then select the `Color Detector` model.
1. Enter `my_color_detector` as the name for your detector and click **Create**.

> 1. In the vision service panel, click the color selection box to set the color to be detected.
>    For this tutorial, set the color to the color of your pet, or use a blue collar or ribbon to improve your filter's accuracy.

Reviewer 4: Nit: try to keep procedural portions as actionable as possible. For this tutorial, enter this hex code.

```suggestion
1. In the vision service panel, click the color selection box to set the color to be detected.
   For this tutorial, set the color to `#43A1D0` or `rgb(67, 161, 208)`.
   Alternatively, you can provide the color of your pet, or use a different brightly-colored collar or ribbon.
```

1. Then, set **Hue Tolerance** to `0.06` and **Segment Size px** to `100`.

> 

Reviewer 4: Don't forget to save config!

```suggestion
1. Then, click **Save config**.

```

Your configuration should look like the following:

![The vision service configuration panel showing the color set to blue, the hue tolerance set to 0.06, and the segment size set to 100.](/tutorials/pet-photographer/vision-service.png)

For more detailed information, refer to [Configure a color detector](/services/vision/detection/#configure-a-color_detector).

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

Add the vision service object to the services array in your rover’s raw JSON configuration:

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
  {
    "name": "my_color_detector",
    "type": "vision",
    "model": "color_detector",
    "attributes": {
      "segment_size_px": 100,
      "detect_color": "#43a1d0",
      "hue_tolerance_pct": 0.06
    }
  },
  ... // Other services
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Configure the color filter camera

> With the vision and data management services configured, you can now configure your camera to filter by color and store photos to Viam's cloud.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With the vision and data management services configured, you can now configure your camera to filter by color and sync photos to Viam's cloud.
```

### Configure your camera

> Navigate to your robot's page in the app and click on the **Config** tab.
> 
> 1. Add your robot's [camera](/components/camera/) as a component by clicking **Create component** in the lower-left corner of the page and entering 'webcam'.
> 1. Select the `webcam` model and enter 'cam' as the name for your camera.
> 1. Then click **Create**.

Reviewer 4: Nit: recommend conceptual intro, followed by ordered list steps:

```suggestion

If you haven't already, add a [camera](/components/camera/) component to your smart machine: 

1. Navigate to your robot's page on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/robots) and select the **Config** tab.
1. Click the **Components** subtab and click **Create component** in the lower-left corner.
1. Select `camera` and then select `webcam`.
1.Enter 'cam' as the name for your camera, then click **Create**.
```

Your robot's configuration page now includes a panel for your camera.

- To choose the camera the robot will use, click the **video path** field.
  - If your robot is connected, you'll see a list of available cameras.
  - Select the camera you want to use, then click **Save config**.

![An instance of the webcam component named 'cam'](/tutorials/pet-photographer/webcam-component.png)

### Add colorfilter component

1. Click the **Components** subtab and then click **Create component**.
1. Next, select the `local modular resource` type from the list.
   {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/pet-photographer/add-local-module-select.png" resize="300x" declaredimensions=true alt="The add a component modal showing the list of components to add with 'local modular resource' shown at the bottom">}}
1. On the following screen:

>    1. Select the camera from the drop down menu.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1. Select `camera` from the drop down menu.
```

   1. Enter the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model-namespace-triplet" text="model namespace triplet">}} for your modular resource's {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="model" >}}, `example:camera:colorfilter`.
   1. Provide a name for this instance of your modular resource.
      This name must be different from the module name.

      {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/pet-photographer/add-colorfilter-module-create.png" resize="400x" declaredimensions=true alt="The add a component model showing the create a module step for a local color filter module">}}

1. Click **Create** to create the modular resource component.

> 1. Copy the following JSON configuration into the **Attributes** section:

Reviewer 4: Nit: I like to use the following language for "in the brand new pane that just poofed in front of you:

```suggestion
1. In the resulting module configuration pane, copy the following JSON configuration into the **Attributes** section:
```

Opt, up to you.

   ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
   {
     "vision_service": "my_color_detector",
     "actual_cam": "cam"
   }
   ```

   ![A component panel for a color filter modular resource with the attributes filled out for vision service and actual_cam](/tutorials/pet-photographer/colorfiltercam-component-attributes.png)

### Configure data capture

To add data capture for the color filter camera, click **Add Method** in the **Data Capture configuration** section of your color filter camera component.

> Toggle the **Type** dropdown menu, select **ReadImage**, and set the **Frequency** of the capture to `0.1`.

Reviewer 4: Opt: to instruct what `0.1` means in this context:

```suggestion
Toggle the **Type** dropdown menu, select **ReadImage**, and set the **Frequency** of the capture to `0.1`, which will configure the data management service to capture images from your about once every 10 seconds.
```

Then, click **Save config**.

![A component panel for a color filter modular resource with the attributes filled out for vision service and actual_cam as well as the data capture configuration capture set capture ReadImage at 0.1 frequency](/tutorials/pet-photographer/colorfiltercam-component.png)

## Test your color filter camera

To test that your color filter camera is capturing and filtering images properly, navigate to the **Control** tab on your robot's page.

On the **colorfiltercam** panel, toggle **view colorfiltercam** to view your camera's live feed.
Test the filter by moving a blue colored item within the camera's field of view.
Then, go to the **Data** tab to view pictures that contain the blue colored item.

> For example, your pet with the blue collar:

Reviewer 4: It's not abundantly clear from the image itself, but the ah-ha moment here is that this image _only shows images that contain the object, all other images (without that object) were never captured in the first place._

What about the following tweak to try to bring that home:

```suggestion
For example, the following is the results of several dozen pictures of the same dog, but only those pictures where he is wearing the blue collar were captured and synced to the cloud:
```

![Filtered data tab contents from colorfiltercam showing only photos of dog with blue collar](/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-capture.png)

## Next steps

Your pet photographer is now set up.
Place it in an area your pet frequently visits and don't forget to attach the colored object to your pet.

> If you want to learn more about data management or detection, you may enjoy one of these tutorials:

Reviewer 4: Our users should enjoy every one of our tutorials with gusto, but alas it is not our purview to so dictate their enjoyment! Instead, recommend the usual:

```suggestion
Try these other tutorials for more on working with the data management and vision services:
```

{{< /alert >}}

## Hardware Requirements

To create your own filtering pet photographer robot, you'll need the following hardware:

- A computer
- A webcam or an external camera
- A colored object, such as a blue collar for enhanced accuracy _(optional)_

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
In this tutorial, the camera is configured to identify and filter images with the color blue, as it is less common in many environments.
If your pet already has a distinct color that is different from their environment, you can also configure your camera to use that color to identify pictures of your pet.
{{< /alert >}}

## Set up

Here's how to get started:

1. Install [Go](https://go.dev/dl/) or [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) on both your local development computer and on your robot's board if they are not the same device.
1. [Create a robot](https://docs.viam.com/manage/fleet/robots/#add-a-new-robot) and connect to it.

> 1. [Install](/installation/manage/#update-viam-server) or [update](/installation/#install-viam-server) `viam-server`.

Author: great catch thank you

1. Open the <file>color_filter.go</file> file you just created and implement the required methods in it.
   Ensure you exclude the `Read` method, which you will replace with a method, `Next`, to add filtering functionality in the upcoming section.
   - You can create your own code or copy the code from the [viam-labs colorfilter repository's color_filter.go](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/main/colorfilter/color_filter.go) file.

For more information, refer to [Create a custom module](https://docs.viam.com/modular-resources/create/#create-a-custom-module).

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The filter function in your custom filter module must contain two critical elements:

1. A utility function that will check if the caller of the filter function is the data management service.
1. A safeguard that ensures if the [data management](/services/data/) service is not the caller, an error and the unfiltered data is returned.

{{< alert title="Important" color="note" >}}
You must include the **safeguard** and **utility function** in order to access data filtering functionality within your module.

> For programming languages other than Python and Go, similar utility functions will be exposed to help you check the caller of your filter function.

Author: Many of the other SDKs were updated with the `extra` parameter, like the [C++ SDK](https://viam.atlassian.net/browse/RSDK-4485), but not every SDK got that exact parameter as the utility function. So in an attempt to bring more clarity I explicitly included where they would find the functions and safeguards:

```
For programming languages other than Python and Go, the component's API in your preferred language's SDK will expose similar utility functions and safeguards.
These tools help you to check the caller of your filter function and ensure your smart machine responds accordingly.
```

> For programming languages other than Python and Go, similar utility functions will be exposed to help you check the caller of your filter function.

Reviewer 4: This is excellent, and 100% clears up my confusion here. Perfect!

### Configure data capture

To add data capture for the color filter camera, click **Add Method** in the **Data Capture configuration** section of your color filter camera component.
Toggle the **Type** dropdown menu, select **ReadImage**, and set the **Frequency** of the capture to `0.1`, which will configure the data management service to capture images from your camera about once every 10 seconds.
Then, click **Save config**.

![A component panel for a color filter modular resource with the attributes filled out for vision service and actual_cam as well as the data capture configuration capture set capture ReadImage at 0.1 frequency](/tutorials/pet-photographer/colorfiltercam-component.png)

## Test your color filter camera

To test that your color filter camera is capturing and filtering images properly, navigate to the **Control** tab on your robot's page.

On the **colorfiltercam** panel, toggle **view colorfiltercam** to view your camera's live feed.
Test the filter by moving a blue colored item within the camera's field of view.

> Then, go to the **Data** tab to view pictures that contain the blue colored item.

Reviewer 4: Let's use these two sentences to celebrate our success with the actual object: our furry friend! Test the filter by moving your smart machine around until it can see your dog, wearing its collar, then check out the tab to see if only pics with your pet (featuring the collar) are shown up in the app! I'll leave wordsmithing the successful check to you!

For example, the following is the result of several dozen pictures of the same dog, but only those pictures where he is wearing the blue collar were captured and synced to the cloud:

![Filtered data tab contents from colorfiltercam showing only photos of dog with blue collar](/tutorials/pet-photographer/data-capture.png)

## Next steps

Your pet photographer is now set up.
Place it in an area your pet frequently visits and don't forget to attach the colored object to your pet.

Now you can follow similar steps and customize the code you've written to configure a sensor for detecting specific thresholds or filter out blurry images from your camera's captures.

Try these other tutorials for more on working with the data management and vision services:

{{< cards >}}

> {{% card link="/tutorials/services/try-viam-color-detection.md" %}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{% card link="/tutorials/services/try-viam-color-detection/" %}}
```

{{% card link="/tutorials/projects/pet-treat-dispenser/" %}}
{{% card link="/tutorials/projects/guardian/" %}}
{{% card link="/tutorials/projects/send-security-photo/" %}}

> {{< /cards >}}

Reviewer 4: One more to add!

```suggestion
{{% card link="/tutorials/services/data-management-tutorial/"  %}}
{{< /cards >}}
```

              timeout: Optional[float] = None,
              **kwargs
    ) -> Tuple[
         bytes,
         str
         ]:
        raise NotImplementedError

    async def get_geometries(self) -> List[Geometry]:
        raise NotImplementedError
```

In this code:

- The Python SDK simplifies the verification process by exposing the utility function `from_dm_from_extra`, to see if the caller is the data management service for you.

- If the boolean is `true`, the function will call the vision service to get detections and return the image if the color is detected.
  Otherwise, it raises `NoCaptureToStoreError()`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go"%}}

<file>color_filter.go</file> implements "colorfilter", a custom model of the [camera component API](/components/camera/#api).

<details>
  <summary>Click to view sample code from <file>color_filter.go</file></summary>

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Package colorfilter implements a modular camera that filters the output of an underlying camera and only keeps
// captured data if the vision service detects a certain color in the captured image.
package colorfilter

import (
"context"
"fmt"
"image"

>     "github.com/edaniels/golog"

Reviewer 4: Ah, sorry, missed this spot for the go logging change too:

```suggestion
    "go.viam.com/rdk/logging"
```

    "github.com/pkg/errors"
    "github.com/viamrobotics/gostream"

    "go.viam.com/rdk/components/camera"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/data"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/pointcloud"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/resource"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/rimage/transform"
    "go.viam.com/rdk/services/vision"

)

var (
    // Model is the full model definition.
    Model = resource.NewModel("example", "camera", "colorfilter")
    errUnimplemented = errors.New("unimplemented")
)

func init() {
    resource.RegisterComponent(camera.API, Model, resource.Registration[camera.Camera, *Config]{
    Constructor: newCamera,
    })
}

> func newCamera(ctx context.Context, deps resource.Dependencies, conf resource.Config, logger golog.Logger) (camera.Camera, error) {

Reviewer 4: Same, new logging approach, my bad for missing:

```suggestion
func newCamera(ctx context.Context, deps resource.Dependencies, conf resource.Config, logger logging.Logger) (camera.Camera, error) {
```

    c := &colorFilterCam{
        Named: conf.ResourceName().AsNamed(),
        logger: logger,
    }
    if err := c.Reconfigure(ctx, deps, conf); err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }
    return c, nil
}

// Config contains the name to the underlying camera and the name of the vision service to be used.
type Config struct {
    ActualCam string `json:"actual_cam"`
    VisionService string `json:"vision_service"`
}

// Validate validates the config and returns implicit dependencies.
func (cfg \*Config) Validate(path string) ([]string, error) {
    if cfg.ActualCam == "" {
        return nil, fmt.Errorf(`expected "actual_cam" attribute in %q`, path)
    }
    if cfg.VisionService == "" {
        return nil, fmt.Errorf(`expected "vision_service" attribute in %q`, path)
    }

    return []string{cfg.ActualCam, cfg.VisionService}, nil

}

// A colorFilterCam wraps the underlying camera `actualCam` and only keeps the data captured on the actual camera if `visionService`
// detects a certain color in the captured image.
type colorFilterCam struct {
    resource.Named
    actualCam camera.Camera
    visionService vision.Service

>     logger golog.Logger

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    logger logging.Logger
```

         detections = await self.vision_service.get_detections(img)
```

> - The Python-configured camera checks if the data management service is the caller of the filter function by using `from_dm_from_extra` to determine whether to store data.

Reviewer: @kaywux are we worried about other services calling the function? We should probably add why this is needed a bit more

Author: @agreenb regarding the data management service calling the Python color filter's [`get_image`](https://github.com/viam-labs/modular-filter-examples/blob/cd2f79c52b98c3deafbd1e9794869744803d4428/pycolorfilter/color_filter.py#L57C25-L57C25) function
